java c
VLSI   Coursework   (CW1)This   coursework forms   part   of the   assessment for the   Integrated   Circuits   and Systems   module   EEEE3098.    It   must   be written as a formal   report   and   submitted via   Moodleno   later than 3pm on Thursday 12th December 2024. This   report   is 30% of the overall   marks for this module   with the   usual   penalties for   late submission.
Introduction 
Very   Large   Scale   Integration   design   today   is   carried   out   totally   by   use   of   a   computer.       The   Computer Aided   Design   (CAD)   route for full custom VLSI design   is typically   as   follows:
1.                            Schematic:                                                          System      drawn      using      schematic      symbols      such      as      NAND      gates,   flip-flops   etc.
2.                            High   Level                                                                System simulated   either   at the   gate   or   behavioural   level   Simulation:
3.                            Cell   Design:                                                          Individual    cells    are      designed      and      simulated      at      the transistor level   using SPICE or a similar   circuit   level   simulator.      This   is called the Pre-layout simulation
4.                            Cell   Layout:                                                       CAD       layout      used    to       layout    individual    transistors      in      each      cell
-   "Polygon   pusher"
5.                            Design   Rule Check: The   various   features    drawn    are   checked   for   minimum   size   and separation   (DRC) 
6.                            Netlist   Extract:                                        Capacitance,   resistance and the   netlist   is   now   extracted   automatically from the   layout
7.                            Electrical   Rule Check: The circuit is now checked for electrical violations (ERC), ie outputs   short   circuit 
8.                            Simulation:                                                          The   circuit    is    now    re-simulated   with   SPICE,   with   the parasitics   calculated   in   (6)   above   included.         This   is   called   the   Post   layout   simulation.
9.                            System   Layout:                                     Complete    chip    is    laid    out    and    if    necessary    steps   5,   6,   7   and   8   are   repeated at the   system   level.
10.                   Verification:                                                    The   layout   is   converted   either to   a   transistor   or   agate   description.    This   is then compared with the original schematic description   in   (1)   above.
11.                      Mask Generation:                      The    layout,    usually   described   in   a   text   form,   is   then   converted   into   a   photomask.      One   of   the   standard   text   layout   forms   is   CIF   (Caltech   Intermediate   Format)
Computers today   can   handle   designs   with   many thousands   of transistors.      The   package   being   used   in this coursework   is freeware software.
The   IC   process   being   used   in   this   coursework   is   the   silicon   gate   CMOS   process   and   has   the following process parameters:Cox = 9 x 10-4 pFµm-2; Cmf = 0.3 x 10-4 pFµm-2 
L = 2.00 µm; Cjan/p = 2.0 x 10-4 pFµm-2 
KN' = 44 µA V-2; Cp = 0.6 x 10-4 pF µm-2 
Kp' = 13 µA V-2; Cjpp/n = ignore Cmp = ignore 
Aim 
The aim of this coursework is to:
(i)                         Characterise       by       computer       simulation      the      transient       performance      of      a       previously
designed   CMOS   inverter   under   both   pre- and   post-layout conditions.
(ii)                         Provide   experience   of   CMOS   layout   structures   and   the   associated   CAD   tools   that   are   used to create and test them,   as   described   above.
(iii)                      Design a   CMOS   NAND3 gate at the   schematic   level   and   produce   a valid   layout   design.
(iv)                      Discuss       some          important       design          consideration          and       latest          CMOS       technological   development.
Software Installation 
Two   pieces of software are   used for this coursework -   Lasi7   and   LTspice.   These   software   are   available from   Moodle and can   be   run on any   Windows   computer.   Please   install   them.
Note that   it   is   not the aim of this   courswork to demonstrate   the   idiosyncrasies   of   this   CAD   packageso   I   make   no apologies for   not explaining all the   possible   commands.
Part   1 -   Inverter   Analysis 
1.                      Cell Design : (Pre-Layout) We   shall   assume   that   a   CMOS   inverter   has   been   designed   at   the   transistor   level,   pre-layout,   such   that   both   transistor   widths   and   lengths   are   3.5µm   and   2µm,   respectively.      A   pre-layout   transistor netlist description   for   this   circuit   is   provided   in   the   file inverterpre.cir in   the   folder   VLSI_Design. Click   LTspice XVII on your desktop   and then   open   the file inverterpre.cir. Examine   the   file   and   deduce   the   meaning   of   each   statement   in   the   netlist.    Then   do   the   following   and   include them   in your   report:
Task 1: Check   that   the   connectivity   of   the   netlist   is   correct   for   a   CMOS   inverter.    Do   this   by   drawing   the   circuit   diagram   in   your   report   and   label   the   nodes   of   your   diagram   with   the   node   numbers and   component   names from   LTspice   netlist.                                                                      [3   marks]
Task 2: Verify    that    the    input    capacitance    of    12.6fF    stated    in    the    netlist    is    correct    for    the   inverter. To do this, calculate the capacitance   using   an appropriate   equation together   with the CMOS size and   process   parameters given   in   Introduction.           [3   marks]Note also that an output capacitance of   100.8fF has   been   added which   represents   eight   similar   inverters loading the output. Note: this value will be changed later on in the coursework design.   We   need   to   run   a transient analysis which   will   be   used   to   record   the   output   voltage   of   the   inverter   overtime,   resulting from the   input   waveform   specified   in the   net   list. To   do this   click Simulate->Run and then click Plot Settings->Visible Traces to   select V(in)   and V(out).
Task 3: Include the transient   plot   to   your   report   annotating   it   to   indicate   the   discharging   and   charging gate delays τgc and τgd   and   record the   approximate values.                                        [3   marks]
Click File->Export data as text to   save   the   transient   raw   data   to inverterpre.txt.   They   can   be   examined with any text editor.   Use them to achieve   a   better   resolution   of   delay   times.
The   pre-layout simulation for transient conditions   is   now complete,   but   before   moving   on:
Task 4: Check   your   values   of   τgc   and   τgd   by   calculation   and   compare   these   with   the   results   obtained from the spice simulation.               [3   marks]
2.                      Inverter Layout A    possible    layout    for   the    inverter    is    presented    next    and    is    also    printed    at    the    end    of    this   document. To   start the   CAD   software   Lasi7,   run   C:\Lasi7\Lasi7.exe   if you   installed   Lasi7   in the   default folder. You   may create   a   shortcut for Lasi7.exe on your desktop.   Click Browse to   select   the folder VLSI_Design and then select   Inverter.cir and then   click OK.   Click List to   bring   up   a   list   of available cells.   Double click on inverter and then   click   OK.      A   coloured   layout   should   appear.   Identify the two   MOS transistors, the   N-well, the   Field   Oxide etc.
If   the   inverter   layout   isn’t   centred   in   the   screen   properly,   press   “Alt   f”   .   If the   layout   becomes   obscured   at   any   point you   can   also   use “alt f” to   refresh the   display.   If you   get   in   a   mess   press the ESC key. If this doesn’t fix things then choose Undo along the top.    If you still have a problem   then   you   will   need   tore-copy   the   VLSI_Design   folder.The   LASI window   is divided   into three areas: The drawing window, which   is   the   main   area,   the button bank   on   the   right   and   the   menu   bar.   The   menus   don’t   function   in   the   same   way   as   normal   menus   do – they act as   buttons   instead.There are actually two   banks of   buttons   available on   the   right   hand   side.   Clicking   on   “Menu   1”   or   “Menu   2” at the top of the   bank will change   banks, as   will   clicking   the   right   mouse   button   in      the   drawing   area.   Not   all   of   the   buttons   actually   change   function.   The   function   of   relevant      buttons   is explained   in the   page at   the end   of this   document.Measure the width   and   length   of the transistor   within   Lasi.    The   values   should   be   displayed   in   µm      in    the       bottom      left      hand      corner      of    the    window.       Clicking    on      the       button       “Grid”    will   add/remove a grid   on the   drawing area. The   coarseness   of   the   grid   can   be   changed   by   clicking   on “   Dgrid”   .
3.                         Netlist Extraction We   now   must   extract   atransistor   netlist   and   parasitics   present   on   the   layout.    This   is   carried   out with “LasiCkt”   . Click “System”   in   LASI and select “LasiCkt”   . Check that the cell for extraction   in   “Setup”   is   “inverter”   as   before   and   select   vlsi.hdr   and   vlsilab.drc   as   Header   File   Name   and   Footer   File   Name,   respectively.      Finally,   at   the   LasiCkt7   menu   click   “Go”   to   extract   the   netlist.   Debug any errors you get   - there   should   be   none!The   net-list   is contained   in   "inverter.cir".   Open the   net-list with the   LTSpice software   and   note   the   new   value   of   input   and   output   capacitance.   Notice that   the   input   capacitance   (16.26fF)   is   now different from   previous one   because of   it   includes additional   gate   parasitics.
Task 5: Using    the      process      data      given       in       Introduction,    calculate    values    for      Cin      and      Cout   including additional gate parasitics and compare them with the ones calculate代 写EEEE3098 VLSI Coursework (CW1)Java
代做程序编程语言d by the   software.   Use   a   copy   of   the   inverter   layout   to   highlight   the   different   areas   you   are   considering to compute capacitance values.   Ignore the capacitance “C_VDD” between   Vdd and Vss   (i.e. ground).        [6   marks]
4.                      Simulation of Extracted Circuit (Post-Layout Simulation) Save “Inverterpre.cir” to   “Inverterpost.cir” and then update the C_in and C_out with the values   from      inverter.cir.    The    extracted       net-list    with       parasitics,      Inverterpost.cir,    can       now      be      re-   simulated   in   LTspice.Task 6: Include the transient plot to your report   as you did   before annotating   it to   indicate the   discharging and charging gate delays τgc   and   τgd   and   record the   approximate   values.   [3   marks]The delay you just computed   are the   inherent   (unloaded) delays   for   this   inverter   cell.   We   now   wish to observe the cell behaviour in   response to 8   unit   loads and then find the fan-out   loading   factor   τ’LD   for   this   cell   (see   Lecture   6 –   CMOS   combinatonal Design for   the   definition   of   τ’LD).   To   do   this,   modify   the inverterpost.cir file,   set   the   output   capacitance   value Cout to   150fF   and   then   run again the transient analysis. The 150fF is approximately equivalent to 8 unit loads   plus   the   inherent   output   capacitance,i.e.
19.6fF + 8   x   16.26fF ≈ 150fFYou will see that the output doesn't quite   reach Vdd    before   it   starts   falling   again,   so   change   the   clock   by   editing the   spice   netlist.   In the   netlist file, find the   line   near   the   top   that   describes   V2   via the   PULSE   statement.   Change the   5ns to   10ns   and the   10ns to   20ns   –   this   halves   the   clock   rate.   Change   the   transient   simulation   time   from   10ns   to   20ns   and   then   re-run   the   transient   analysis.
Task 7: Include   the   transient   plot   to   your   report   also   for   the   loaded   case.    Measure   the   new   τgc and τgd to a   suitable   accuracy.                [3   marks]
Task 8: As   did    before,   compute   the   delays   τgc   and   τgd   for   the   post-layout   inverter   in   both   loaded   and   unloaded   case.                        [6   marks]
Task 9: Compare the   calculated values with   the   one   obtained   in   simulation   and   give   possible   reasons why the values   do   not fully   agree.   Show   how   improvements   can   be   made   to   the simulation, calculation or   both, to obtain   a   better   agreement.            [4   marks]
Task 10: Determine τ’LD   in   units of   ns/pF for   both   L ->   H   and   H   ->   L.                                                                                                    [2   marks]
Task 11: Why   is the   propagation   delay   L   ->   H greater than the   propagation   H   ->   L   even though   the transistors are of the same   size?               [3   marks]
Part   2 -   NAND3   Design   and   Layout The   purpose   of   this   section   is   to   give   you   a   different   viewpoint   of   layout   design.   Rather   than   just   analysing   existing   designs,   as we   have   done   in   lectures, you   are   here to try to   design   your   own circuit and create the corresponding   layout – taking   design   rules   into   account,   of   course.   I   hope   that   you   will   get   a   better   understanding   of   how   the   layers   fit   together   to   make   devices   and   circuits, as well as the   related skills   like   circuit   design   and   design   rules.The aim   is the schematic and   layout design of   a   digital   logic   cell   to   be   used   as   a   standard   cell   of   height   60λ   .    Please   note   that   as   already   mentioned,   the   design   must   be   free   of   design   rule   errors.   You    should    also   try   to    make    it    as    compact    as    possible.    When    marking    the    layouts   consideration   will   be   made   of   the   tidiness   of   the   design.   The   gate   you   will   be   designing   is   a   NAND3   (3   input   NAND gate).
Schematic Design The   specification you   must   meet with your   design   is that   the   worst   case   switching   delay   must   be   less   than   2ns   when   driving   a   load   of   100fF.   You   must   design   both   the   P   and   N   networks   intelligently, which is to say that you must ensure that the values for τgc   and τgd   meet the timing   requirement, but that they are also not over engineered. Do not exceed the timing specification   by   more than a factor of 20%, i.e. your τgc   and τgd   values   must   be greater than   1.6ns,but do not   need to   be   identical. You should calculate the width   and   length for   each   transistor.
Task 12: In your   report, draw the   NAND3   schematic circuit   diagram.                                                                                              [5   marks]
Task 13: Show      your      complete      calculations      the      width      and      length      for      each      transistor      to   demonstrate your design   respects the   requirements.                                                                                                                         [20   marks]
Layout Design Now   you   have   designed your   circuit, you   need   to   start   drawing the   layout.   Run   Lasi7.   Instead   of   selecting   an   existing   cell,   type the   name   of your   new   cell   and   press   OK. A   new   window   will   ask you to select the cell   Rank.   Choose   2   and   press   OK.Firstly, add the stdcell_60 cell to your design. This includes a   small   amount   of   metal that   shows   where   the   Vdd    and   Vss    lines   should   go.   You   should   extend   this   metal   in   the   x   direction   to   the   final width of your cell. To add the cell, click the Obj button and choose the stdcell_60 cell from   the   list.   Now click Add and click to add the cell. To change   back to   being able to   add   rectangles,   click Obj and select Box,   before   using Add again.You   should   now   start   to   draw   your   gate.   You   can   choose   what   layer   to   draw   by   pressing   the Layr button   in   the   button   bank   on   the   right.   Once   you   have   done   this,   click   Add   and   you   can   then   draw   rectangles   of   that   layer.   Please   note   that   the   snap   grid   resolution   is   0.5λ   .   Start   by   drawing the device and polysilicon   layers, ensuring the width and   length of the overlap   (i.e. the   gate) are   correct.
Deleting a rectangle Click aPut to deselect everything, click fGet (full get) and click and then click again on the layout   window to draw a   box around one   of the   corners   of the   rectangle   you   wish   to   delete.   It   should   turn white.   Now   click Del.
Resizing a rectangle Click on aPut to deselect everything.   Now click on the Get button.   Draw   a   box   around the   edge   of the rectangle you wish to resize. That single edge should turn white. Now click Mov, the click   at the start   point of the   move,   move the   mouse and   click   on the   destination.
Moving a rectangle 
Use Get orfGet to   select the   entire   rectangle   and then   use Mov as   above   to   move   the   whole   rectangle.
DRC Once you   have finished the   layout of your gate you should   run   DRC to check it   is valid.   Click the   System   menu, then   LasiDrc.   In the   LasiDrc window,   click   Setup to   ensure   that   the   cell   name   is   correct   and   select   vlsilab.drc   from   the   folder   VLSI_Design   as   DRC   File   Name.   Next   make   sure   that   “Start   check”   is   1,   and   “Finish   check”   is   100.   You   should   also   always   click “Fit”   to   ensure   that the   DRC tool   looks at the smallest complete   area   possible.
Once   the   DRC   has   run   (click   Go),   you   should   get   a   message   about   any   errors.   If you   have   any,   you   can open the   DRC error   map file   using the   Map   menu from   LasiDRC.
Post Layout Check 
Task 14: After you   have completed your   layout, make an estimate of the output   capacitance   of   your   layout   design. Your estimate should   include the junction capacitance only,   there   is   no   need to   add the wire capacitance.   Include your   calculations   in your   report.   Does   your   design   still   meet   the   required   timing?   If   not,   please   modify   the   design   to   meet   the   requirements.                [15   marks]
Part   3 -   Discussion 
Task 15: Discuss   the   design   solutions   if   the   NAND   gate   needs   to   drive   a   100pF   external   load   while still   meeting the delay   requirements.                    [6   marks]
Task 16: Why       delay,       power       consumption       and       area       are       the       most       important       IC       design   parameters, in terms of environmental impact and   commercial   market?   How   are they   related to each other,   in terms of   design   consideration?                   [6   marks]
Task 17: How to   mitigate the design   risk,   in terms of   Layout   design   rule   settings?                         [3   marks]
Task 18: FinFET       is      widely       used       in       modern       chip       designs.       What      are       its      advantages       and   disadvantages?                [6   marks]
Final Steps You   should   include a good   quality screen   capture   (not   photograph!) of the   complete   design   in   your   report   and   make   sure   your   report   covers all the tasks. You   should   also   create   a   zip   of the   VLSI_Design folder   and   submit that   alongside your   report,   so that   I   can   verify the   files   myself.   Please   note that   missing   design files will   result   in   lost   marks,   so take   care   to   include   all   of   the   files you   have   produced.
Report guidelines Report   must   not   exceed   12   pages.   Please   use   Microsoft   Word   or   an   equivalent   software   to   write   it,   including   equations.   Do   not   put   hand-written   parts. Also   schematic   and   diagram   have   to   be drawn with a   software   of   your   choice.
Please include the task number in your report to facilitate marking. 
The   usual   deduction   will   apply   for   work   submitted   late.   Do   not   leave   your   submission   to   the   last   minute,   even   a few seconds   late will   incur the   late   penalty.
Plagiarism   and   collusion   are   actively   checked   for.   Please   do   not   allow   anyone   else   access   to   your work, even   your   friends.







         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
